Welcome to the course.
This week I'll show you how to
create neural networks
using layers.
This simplifies the
task a lot as you
will see. Let's dive in.
First, you'll revisit
the general structure
of neural networks and how
they make predictions.
I'll show you the structure
you'll be using to
perform sentiment analysis
during this week.
Neural networks are
computational structures that,
in a very simplistic way,
attempt to mimic the way
the human brain
recognizes patterns.
They're used in many applications
of artificial intelligence
and have proven very effective
on a variety of tasks,
including those in NLP.
Have a look at this example of
a simple neural network
with n input parameters,
two hidden layers, and
three output units.
As inputs, this neural
network receives
a data representation
x with n features,
then performs computations
in its hidden layers.
Finally, it delivers an output
which in this case has size 3.
Let's take a look at how
it works mathematically.
All the nodes every
activation layer as a_i,
where i is the layer's number.
First, define a_0 to
be the input vector x.
To get the values for each
layer's activation, a,
you have to compute
the value for z_i,
which depends on both
the weights matrix
for that layer and
the activations,
a, from the previous layer.
Finally, you get the values for
each layer by applying
an activation function,
g, to the value of z.
As you can see, this
computation moves
forward through the left of
the neural network
towards the right.
That's why this process is
called forward propagation.
For this module's assignments,
you're going to implement
a neural network that
looks like this.
As inputs, it will receive
a simple vector representation
of your tweets.
It will have an embedding
layer that will transform
your representation into an
optimal one for this task.
Finally, it will have
a hidden layer with
a ReLU activation function
and then output layer with
the softmax function that will
give you the probabilities
for whether a tweet has a
positive or negative sentiment.
This neural network
will allow you to
predict sentiments
for complex tweets,
such as a tweet like
this one that says,
"This movie was almost good."
That you wouldn't have been able
to classify correctly using
simpler methods such as
Naive Bayes because they
missed important information.
The initial representation, x,
that you'll use for
this neural network will
be a vector of integers.
Similar to your previous work
with sentiment analysis,
you will first need to list all
of your words from
your vocabulary.
Next for this application,
you'll assign an integer
index to each of them.
Then for each word in your
tweets add the index from
your vocabulary to construct
a vector like this
one for every tweet.
After you have all the vector
representations of your tweets,
you will need to identify
the maximum vector size and fill
every vector with zeros
to match that size.
This process is called padding
and ensures that all of
your vectors have the same size
even if your tweets don't.
Let's do a quick recap.
At this point,
you're familiar with
the general structure of
the neural network that you'll be
using to classify sentiments for
a set of complex nuance tweets.
You also reviewed the
integer representation
that's going to be
used in this module.
Next, I'll introduce
the tracks library
for neural networks
and demonstrate how
the embedding layer
works. I'll see you later.